Now that we've looked at
evaluation of binary classifiers,
let's take a look at how the more
general case of multi class
classification is handled in evaluation.
So in may respects, multi-class
evaluation is a straightforward
extension of the methods we
use in binary evaluation.
Instead of two classes,
we have multiple classes.
So, the results for
multi-class evaluation amount to
a collection of true verses
predicted binary outcome per class.
And just as we saw in the binary case,
you can generate confusion
matrices in the multi-class case.
They're especially useful when
you have multiple classes,
because there are many different
kinds of errors that result from one
true class being predicted
as a different class.
We'll look at an example of that.
Classification reports that we saw in
the binary case are easy to generate for
the multi-class case.
Now the one area,
which is worth a little more examination
is how averaging across
classes takes place.
There are different ways to
average multi-class results that
we'll cover shortly.
And the support, the number of instances
for each class is important to consider.
So just as we're all interested
in how to handle imbalance
classes in the binary case,
it's important as you will see
to consider similar issues
of how the support for
classes might vary to a large or
small extent across multiple classes.
There is a case of multi-label
classification in which each instance
could have multiple labels.
For example,
a web page might be labeled with different
topics that come from a predefined
set of areas of interest.
We won't cover multi-label
classification in this lecture.
Instead, we'll focus exclusively
on multi-class evaluation.
The multi-class confusion matrix is
a straightforward extension of the binary
classifier two by two confusion matrix.
For example, in our digits data set,
there are ten classes for
the digits, zero through nine.
So, the ten class confusion matrix is
a ten by ten matrix with the true digit
class indexed by row and the predicted
digit class indexed by column.
As with the two by two case, the correct
prediction is by the classifier where
the true class matches the predicted
class are all along the diagonal and
misclassifications are off the diagonal.
In this example which was created
using the following notebook code
based on a support vector classifier
with linear kernel, we can see that most
of the predictions are correct with only
a few misclassifications here and there.
The most frequent type of mistake here is
apparently misclassifying the true digit,
eight as a predicted digit one
which happened three times.
And indeed, the overall accuracy is high,
about 97% as shown here.
As an aside, it's sometimes useful to
display a confusion matrix as a heat map
in order to highlight the relative
frequencies of different types of errors.
So, I've included the code
to generate that here.
For comparison,
I've also included a second confusion
matrix on the same dataset for
another support vector classifier that
does much worse in a distinctive way.
The only change is to use an RBF,
radial basis function kernel
instead of a linear kernel.
While we can see for the accuracy number
were about 43% below the confusion matrix
that the classifier is doing much
worse than the delinear kernel,
that single number doesn't
give much insight into why.
Looking at the confusion matrix, however,
reveals that for every true digit class,
a significant fraction of outcomes
are to predict the digit four.
That's rather surprising.
For example, of the 44 instances
of the true digit 2 in row 2,
17 are classified correctly, but
27 are classified as the digit 4.
Clearly, something is broken with this
model and I picked this second example
just to show an extreme example of what
you might see when things go quite wrong.
This digits dataset is
well-established and free of problems.
But especially when developing
with a new dataset,
seeing patterns like this in a confusion
matrix could give you valuable clues
about possible problems, say in
the feature pre-processing for example.
So as a general rule of thumb
as part of model evaluation,
I suggest always looking at the confusion
matrix for your classifier.
To get some insight into what
kind of errors it is making for
each class including whether some classes
are much more prone to certain kinds of
errors than others.
Next, just as in the binary case,
you can get a classification report that
summarizes multiple evaluation metrics for
a multi-class classifier with an average
metric computed for each class.
Now what I'm about to describe,
also applies to the binary class case,
but it's easier to see when looking at
multi-class classification problem with
several classes.
So, here's an example of how to compute
macro-average precision and micro-average
precision on a sample dataset that I
have extracted from our fruit dataset.
In this example,
we have three columns where the first
column is the true class of an example.
The second column is the predictive
class from some classifier and
the third column is a binary
variable that denotes whether
the predictive class
matches the two class.
And here, we have in our, this is
a multi-class classification problem.
And so, we have three classes here.
We have several instances there,
the orange class.
We have two instances that
are the lemon class and
we have two instances
that are the apple class.
So in this first example,
we'll compute macro-average precision and
the key aspect of macro-average precision
is that each class has equal weight.
So in this case,
each of these classes will contribute
one-third weight towards the final
macro-average precision value.
So, there are two steps to
compute macro-average precision.
The first one is to compute the metric.
So in this case, we're going to
compute precision within each class.
So, let's take a look at the orange class.
There are five total examples
in the orange class and
only one of them was predicted
correctly by the classifier.
And so, that leads to a precision for
the orange class of 1 out of 5 or 0.20.
For the second class, the lemon class.
There are a total of two instances and
only one of them was predicted correctly,
and
that leads to a precision of one-half or
0.50 for the lemon class.
Let's write the precision for each of
the classes that we have calculated.
This was.
And for the third class, the apple class.
The classifier predicted
both of these correctly.
So, that's a precision of 2 out of 2 or
1.0.
That's the first step.
We've computed the precision
metric within each class.
And then in the second step,
we simply average across these three to
produce the final result,
to get our final macro-average precision.
And so
we can simply compute the average of 0.2,
0.5 and 1 and
we get our final macro-average
precision for this set of results of 0.57.
You'll notice here that no matter how
many instances they were in each class,
because we computed position
within each class first,
each class contributes equally
to the overall macro-average.
So we could have had, for
example, a million examples and
from the orange class.
But that class would have still been
weighted equally, because we would have
first computed precision for
the million orange examples and then that
number would still get a third of the
weight compared to the other two classes.
So, that's macro-average precision.
Micro-average precision is
computed a little differently and
it gives each instance in the data
results here equal weight.
In micro-average precision,
we don't compute precision for
each class separately.
We treat the entire dataset,
the entire set of results
here as an aggregate outcome.
So to compute micro-average precision,
we simply look at how
many of all the examples.
We have nine examples here in total and
micro-average precision will
simply compute the precision for
all the examples,
regardless of class in the set of results.
So out of these nine instances,
we have found that the classifier
predicted four of them correctly.
And so, the micro-average precision is
simply computed as 4/9 or 0.44.
And you'll notice here that if we had
a million instances of the orange class,
for example,
that with micro-average precision,
because each instance has equal weight.
That would lead to the orange
class contributing many,
many more instances to our
overall micro-average precision.
And so, the effect of
micro-average precision is to give
classes with a lot more
instances much more influence.
So, the average here would have been
influenced much more by the million orange
examples than by the two lemon and
apple examples.
And so, that is the difference between
micro and macro-average precision.
If the classes have about the same
number of instances, macro and
micro-average will be about the same.
If some classes are much larger,
have more instances than others and
you want to weight your metric toward
the largest ones, use micro-averaging.
If you want to weight your metric towards
the smallest classes, use macro-averaging.
If the micro-average is much
lower than the macro-average,
then examine the larger classes for
poor metric performance.
If the macro-average is much lower than
the micro-average, then you should
examine the smaller classes to see why
they have poor metric performance.
Here, we use the average
parameter on the scoring function.
In the first example,
we used the precision metric and
specify whether we want micro-average
precision which is the first case or
macro-average precision
in the second case.
In the second example,
we use the f1 metric and
compute micro and macro-averaged f1.
Now that we've seen how
to compute these metrics,
let's take a look at how to use
them to do model selection.